Sister Margarita Koneger has seen the growth of the Kingdom work all her life.
She has served as a missionary since 1966, and we met her in Hungary, where she has now
served for about nine years.
Budapest to me, it's a pretty city, and I find it's like a melting pot, because many
countries around, it's very international, it's Hungarian, but many people come through
from everywhere.
I'm a missionary in the Chinese field, and I'm here now nine years.
I'm now a missionary for 47 years, and my first assignment was Madagascar.
We had good studies, the people were very nice, was very nice there.
I was four years in the house in Madagascar, because then we were banned, we had to leave,
we were expelled, and we could take some lockage, but not everything, but we didn't have
much either.
And then we were sent to Kenya, after three years we were again banned.
And then we came to Benin, we went to preach a little bit with people what we knew, but
we had to be careful because they turned communists at that time.
Then the military came, and the police, and there were young people, also shouting slogans.
Ihu Zutantan, Ihu Zutantan for the liberty, we are ready, for the liberty we are ready,
and very excited, and surrounded the battle, and we couldn't go out anymore, and we were
bad people.
The next day, two policemen came, big man, you come, we bring you to Tugul.
Okay, we came, no lockage.
They brought us on the road to Tugul, we left, we were talking all the time and preaching
to them, and one was talking and one was praying, we talked to them all the time about
Chihuahua.
Then they stopped in the forest, and they said, come out, and Chihuahua must have given
us the right idea, we said, we don't come out, we prayed, we sat there, we didn't move.
And they were talking together, talking, we thought, even if they come, we do everything
what we can not to go out, and then they came, okay, let's go on.
And they drove us on, but it was dangerous, I think it was the most dangerous time what
I can remember in my missionary service.
And just asked two girls, you know, and they went on again and brought us to Tugul, and
then we had to wait about four weeks or so until we got a new assignment, and it was
in Pukina Faso.
I was in this country, 23 years, when I went to the market, buying things, everybody knew
me.
Mata Mwaga, Mata Mwaga, they called me Mata Mwaga.
Mwaga is a, a must see, is a, a, a, a native, it's the tribe, the must see tribe, and
one of the must see is a Mwaga, so I'm a Mata Mwaga, because I spoke the language like
I spoke well, you know, I learned from the people, you know.
So I got the things cheaper, they were very nice to preach, we had always baptisms.
In one year, I, I think it was thin, at least eight in one year, we started very small,
but we grew there.
After many years, I, I got malaria, and then they sent me to Germany, then afterwards
I was sent to Hungary, and I'm here now nine years, there are many Chinese, thousands
of Chinese living here in Budapest.
I'm reaching in Chinese shops in the restaurants, and small restaurants, and they are very
friendly, they know me now, many know me now.
I like very much the Chinese congregation, the people come there also to meet other Chinese
and other Jehovah's Witnesses, and they don't want to go home, they have a good spirit.
I would say, I'm really thankful to Jehovah that he helped me to jump in the right moment
into the right career.
If we are in the full time service, I think it's like you are traveling and Jehovah is directing
you, so I don't worry, it's the responsibilities with Jehovah.
I mean, we have to be faithful, that is our responsibility, but what is happening is
Jehovah knows what is, what he lets happen, it's okay, and I hope everybody who is young
he will do the same, because he will miss something, because it's very satisfying and
working with Jehovah, you cannot compare it to anything else.
In the 50 years since she graduated from Gilead, Sister Kuniger has learned seven languages
and has served in five different countries, and recently she received a new assignment,
the Chinese field in Munich, Germany.
Daily reading and meditating on God's word the Bible has given her the strength she needs
to continue with joy in her missionary assignment.